# Presentation at SSC 2025 in Delft

The 20th annual [Social Simulation Conference](https://ssc2025.tbm.tudelft.nl/) (SSC 2025) took place from 10th to 13th June 2025 at Dresden University of Technology, Germany. The theme was “Social simulation in a socio-technical context: embracing societies’ complexities".

Nick presented the following paper:

_Malleson, N., & Manley, E. (2025, April 16). Towards the use of Foundation Models and Embeddings for Nuanced Perception and Decision-Making in Agents. Social Simulation Conference, Technical University of Delft, Netherlands._

**Abstract**: Following the emergence of powerful generative large language models (LLMs), there has been a flurry of interest in the use of
LLMs to control agents in agent-based models. Proponents argue that
using the information about humans and human behaviour contained
within an LLM could lead to the creation of agents who exhibit more
complex and nuanced behaviour than those whose actions are driven by
traditional behavioural frameworks. This paper begins to explore the use
of a specific concept that underpins LLMs; that of embeddings. An embedding is a vector-based numerical representation of a piece of text that
captures aspects of its meaning and context. We hypothesise that conceptualising agents’ characteristics through embeddings, rather than with
discrete state variables, may offer a more nuanced and expressive foundation for representing agent characteristics and behaviours. We demonstrate the potential of this approach by recreating the Schelling residential segregation model using rich text descriptions of household agents
and converting these to embeddings as a means of defining agents. The
results show how agents can self-organise into more diverse and emergent clusters than is possible when they are defined with a small number
of discrete attributes. This offers a path toward more realistic, highdimensional representations of agent heterogeneity.

The paper is [available here](https://github.com/Urban-Analytics/INTEGRATE/blob/main/web/presentations/SSC2025/SSC_2025___Schelling_Embeddings.pdf)
